[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
It's James here
from "Food Matters,"
and welcome to this FMTV
special interview with Ty
Bollinger, the founder of
the "Truth About Cancer"
docu-series.
If you have not seen this series
yet, you must check it out.
When we first created
Food "Matters,"
looking at the cancer
industry and a lot
of the causative
factors of cancer
and some of the failings of
mainstream medicine's approach
to cancer treatment,
it's something that's
really close to our heart.
And Ty has been an absolute
crusader in this space,
helping open up the
research and helping open up
a lot of this information.
It's been said
that this series is
the series that the mainstream
networks refuse to air.
And I love that about it
because it's true to its cause.
It is really about uncovering
the best information that's
out there.
And today, I'm
going to be having
a quick chat with Ty about
his journey and everything
he's learned so far.
Ty, how are you doing?
>> Good, James.
Good to see you
again, my friend.
>> Yeah.
So this was a personal
catalyst that set you off
on this journey in creating
"The Truth About Cancer"
series and the whole movement
that you've made around this.
Tell me a little bit about
that, how that happened.
>> Yeah, it's very
personal to me.
James, when I graduated from
Baylor University in 1991,
I never dreamed that 25 years
later I'd be doing this.
I'm a certified
public accountant,
or in Australia it's a
chartered accountant.
So that's my education.
And so I figured that's
what I'd be doing.
And that's what I
did do for five years
until my dad got sick.
And in 1996, my
dad was diagnosed
with cancer on July the 1st.
He died the 25th.
So 25 days, a man that
was 52 years old was dead.
And so it was that incident
and my own personal loss
that got me questioning the
entire medical paradigm.
I didn't understand
how a man that
was 52 years old,
seemingly healthy,
went in for what was just minor
stomach pains they thought
was gallbladder problems,
and they ended up
taking out his entire
stomach due to cancer.
He died in a little
over three weeks
as a result of a
botched surgery.
It wasn't the cancer,
because the initial diagnosis
was two years.
He died in less than a month.
And so I didn't understand
how they couldn't save my dad.
And that just got me into
reading and researching
and learning all I
could about cancer.
And what I began to
realize is that we
have a lot of
treatments for cancer
that work better than what
they tell you in the hospitals,
but they're not lucrative
because a lot of them
are herbs and foods and things
that are not patentable.
And so there's no money
in those treatments.
And that was really--
it was enraging to
me at first because I
felt like I'd lost my
father because he didn't
have knowledge, because
this information is
being suppressed.
But after dad died, over
the next seven years,
I lost both granddads, a
grandma, an uncle, a cousin,
and my mother.
So I lost my whole
family to cancer.
So it is very personal to me.
And my whole mission, the whole
mission with "The Truth About
Cancer," is just to get
the information out there
to educate people so that they
know that there are options
if they're diagnosed
with cancer.
And then they can make
up their own mind.
>> That's a great mission.
And I think one of the experts
from the "Food Matters"
documentary says that with
access to better information,
people invariably make better
decisions for their health.
And I think you look at
when somebody is diagnosed
with a chronic illness,
cancer specifically,
the amount of money
that gets spent is huge,
whether it's subsidized by
the government or insurance.
But still, the out-of-pocket
expenses are very high.
For a relatively small
investment of your time
and of money, you can uncover
some excellent resources
to help make better decisions.
So I'm with you on
this crusade, really,
in helping expose this and
help more people access
this information.
One of the questions
I had for you
was what is your recommendations
for people when they're first
diagnosed with cancer?
What are your top tips for
people as a first port of call?
>> Yeah, that's
a great question.
And sadly, according to the
World Health Organization,
one in two men alive
today, one in three women,
are going to face
that diagnosis.
So this is not just something
that happens to a few people.
It happens to-- I guess
that boils down to about 41%
of people alive today
are going to face cancer.
So the first thing that I
recommend is don't panic.
Cancer takes a long
time to manifest itself
in the body, years and years and
years, sometimes over a decade.
Don't panic, and don't
allow your medical doctor
to scare you into a
treatment that you're not
comfortable with.
Because in light of the fact
that this cancer has taken
5, 6, maybe 10 years to
manifest, most cancers-- now,
some are much more fast growing.
I'm not discounting that.
Most cancers, though,
are slower growing.
They take a long
time to manifest.
Don't let the doctor
tell you on a Friday
that you need to start
treatment on a Monday
before you've had time
to do your research
and figure out the way you
want to treat your cancer.
Because it's your body, you
should have that option.
Don't play into the fear.
What I would say before
that is start now,
before you're diagnosed,
living a lifestyle
that's a cancer
preventative lifestyle
so that you don't have to
even face that diagnosis.
And so I would say
try to prevent.
Let's not wait and treat once
you have the disease, which
is the whole Western
medical paradigm is focused
on treating once you get it.
It's not focused on
preventing because there's
no money in prevention, James.
>> That's true.
>> And it's not just
me being paranoid.
It's not me being a
conspiracy theorist.
The United States Senate has
determined in the United States
that there is an
active conspiracy
to suppress cancer treatment,
natural cancer treatments.
So it's not just me.
It's the United States Senate.
Because why?
Because money.
So don't play into the fear.
Try to prevent.
But if you are diagnosed,
empower yourself
with knowledge.
Watch our documentary.
You can watch it
online for free.
Read books.
Empower yourself with knowledge.
And then begin a protocol that
will help you to do two things.
Detoxify while
you fill your body
with nutrients that will empower
your immune system to work
the way it's supposed to.
Because cancer is
really a disease
of a deficiency
coupled with toxicity.
It's you're deficient in
nutrition and you're toxic.
So you get rid of
the toxins and begin
to bring in the nutrition,
and it's amazing, James.
Your body starts to heal itself.
The body's the real
cure to cancer.
It's interesting.
I've done these
documentaries called
the "Quest for the Cures," but
the reality is, there's really
not cures for cancer.
What there are are natural
substances, a whole plethora
of natural substance,
hundreds and hundreds
of herbs and foods, that
give your body the fuel
that it needs.
And it does the curing if
you give it the right fuel.
>> Yeah, I couldn't agree more.
The body-- that was a big
shift that my dad made.
My dad was actually an
accountant as well in
Australia, and he suffered
from chronic fatigue syndrome,
depression, anxiety.
No cancer.
Well, he's had some skin
cancers topically, actually.
But his main issue was
the chronic fatigue.
And for him, once he
understood this idea
that the body is a
self-healing mechanism,
it completely
shifted his approach
to how he viewed
his health and how
he approached his
condition, and we
were able to help him
recover from that very fast.
>> Yeah.
It really is amazing
what the body can do
if you give it the proper fuel.
And it's really funny, James.
In health, this is the only
area that we operate this way.
Let's say you have somebody
that's a race car driver
and their race car is
not running properly.
We're not going to
go cut off the tire
or take a part of the
engine out because it's not
running properly.
We're going to make sure
that the oil is clean,
the filters are clear,
the fuel's proper.
And then, guess what?
The car runs.
But with the Western
medical paradigm,
we have a body that
doesn't work properly, we
have a problem with a
tumor in your breast,
we cut the breast off.
You have a tumor in your spleen,
we cut part of the spleen off.
We don't even look at the fuel
that's going into that body.
We don't even look to
make sure the filters,
the lymph nodes are cleared.
We don't even look at
it the way that anybody
would look at a car.
But they both run
on the proper fuel.
And so what we really are
aiming for-- and I know that
you're aiming for the same
thing with "Food Matters,"
and we love what you're doing--
is a paradigm shift
where we're actually
looking at the cause of
disease, and then we're
giving the body the
fuel that it needs,
and it does all
the healing itself.
It's that self-healing
mechanism that you talked about
that we all have.
>> I couldn't agree more.
And there's a lot of--
when you start to
do this research,
one of the sad things
for me in particular,
I can tell it's a little
bit the same for you,
is the failings
of modern medicine
when it comes to this epidemic.
What do you think
the big issues are
around how modern medicine
is approaching the cancer
epidemic?
>> The biggest
issues are twofold.
It's education and finances.
Number one, education.
When I say that, what I mean
is that, at least in the United
States, the curriculum
for medical schools
was co-opted 100 years ago.
So the medical
schools were basically
bought off by the pharmaceutical
and the chemical companies.
And so now, as a
result of what happened
with this alliance
with big business
100 years ago with what's
called the Flexner Report,
all of the curriculum
in medical schools
is drug intensive because
they were basically bought.
And so when a doctor goes
through medical school,
he or she learns that
if someone's sick,
here's a drug for that sickness.
If someone has this sickness,
here's another drug for it.
Someone has this sickness,
And the reason
that they're taught
that is because that's
all the curriculum
is in the medical schools.
That is what they're taught,
that that's the only way
to treat.
They're not taught anything
holistic because the American
Medical School--
or the American Medical
Association in 1913
started an active campaign to
attack all holistic physicians
in the United States.
And that was where the
first use of the term
quack in the United States,
was from the American Medical
Association calling people that
were holistic practitioners,
calling naturopaths or
chiropractors or herbalists,
quacks.
So as a result, 100
years later, because
of the fact that
this medical school
curriculum has been bought off,
all that doctors know is drugs.
So it's not their fault, really.
They're genius people.
Most doctors are really smart.
I don't know if I could
get through medical school.
It's brutal.
You've got to be
really, really smart.
>> And they have the
right intention too.
>> And they have
good intentions.
They have good intentions.
But you go through
a decade of all
you hear from what you
think are the highest
institutions of the land telling
you that the only way that you
can cure this sickness
is with this drug,
and you begin to believe it.
Because why would they have
anything else to teach you?
Why would they be
lying to you otherwise?
And the reality
is they don't even
know they're lying to you,
because 100 years ago, we've
all forgotten what happened.
And so now this is
just the gospel truth,
that if you have this symptom,
here's a drug to treat it.
That's all medical
doctors know, so that's
all they can tell you.
So that's number one reason,
is that medical doctors just
have not been taught.
And so we're actually
trying to re-educate them.
And you would not believe
the number of medical doctors
that I get the privilege of
consulting with and knowing
as my friends that actually
go to websites like ours
and yours to get educated,
because they're not
getting educated in
their medical schools.
But the number two reason, and
it's maybe actually the number
one reason, is the finances.
It's big business.
Cancer treatment
is big business.
I've heard it said
that there are more
people making a
living off of cancer
than are dying from cancer,
because it's big business.
In the United States,
you can anticipate
$750,000 per diagnosis to
be spent on treatments.
And so when you have that
kind of a vested interest
from the big businesses, from
the pharmaceutical companies,
from the vaccine manufacturers,
from the hospitals,
from all these
organizations that
are pocketing a lot of cash--
And also, when we
look at chemotherapy--
this is a little bit
off topic, but when
you look at chemotherapy,
it's the only set
of drugs in the United
States that doctors
are allowed to mark up
or get a kickback for.
They get a commission.
So doctors, oncologists,
buy chemotherapy
at a certain price, and they
mark it up before they sell it.
So where's the incentive to
stop treating with something
that you can mark up 600%, 700%,
800% and make a fortune on?
It's estimated that the
average oncologist makes more
from kickbacks to
chemotherapy than he
does with his regular base
salary in the United States.
So where's the
incentive to stop that?
>> As myself, when I start
making a documentary,
it's normally you have to follow
where the money is coming.
>> Follow the money.
>> Yeah, follow the money.
>> Yeah.
And we see instances
like Dr. Farid Fata
in Detroit, Michigan.
He's an oncologist that now
is serving 45 years in jail.
I don't know if you're
familiar with his story.
>> No.
>> But he was an oncologist,
and he was he was literally
prescribing chemotherapy to
patients at his clinic that
didn't even have cancer.
>> Off-label prescribing.
And there were hundreds
of them that died.
>> No.
>> He milked Medicare.
He billed them $245 million.
He collected $93 million
for chemotherapies
that were not needed.
Some of them didn't
have cancer at all.
Some of them had cancer,
but he prescribed
the wrong chemotherapy
for their type of cancer.
I would contest that
there is a right kind of--
I would dispute whether
there actually is
a correct type of chemotherapy.
But regardless, he
collected $93 million
from people that didn't
even have cancer.
And now he's serving
45 years in jail.
That just shows that
the system's broken.
You have this incentive
from oncologists
to make money on chemotherapy.
So there's really-- if you can
make an extra $300,000 a year
on prescribing chemotherapy, or
if you can actually heal people
by helping them to change
their diet, exercise,
and detoxify but
doesn't make any money--
>> You've got a systemic issue.
>> What's going to win?
>> When it comes to natural
treatments for a cancer,
a lot of your effort and work
is focused on uncovering natural
herbs, treatments, processes
that help reverse cancer
or prevent it.
What are some of the
biggest discoveries
you've made in your research?
>> Well, most of the natural
treatments for cancer,
whether they are viral
therapy from Riga, Latvia,
which focuses on healthy
viruses to kill cancer,
whether it's hyperthermia, which
focuses on heating the body up
to kill the cancer cells,
whether it's enzyme therapy
that Dr. Gonzalez uses or used
to use before he passed away,
whether it's mitochondrial
therapy using a ketogenic diet,
all of them that are successful,
they have one thing in common,
and that's changing your diet.
All of these therapies
that are successful
realize that food matters.
That's a great name,
isn't it, Food Matters?
But they all realize that.
You can't-- if you have
a disease that's caused
by a deficiency in nutrition
and a toxicity that's caused
partially by the food
that you've been eating,
you can't turn it around
unless you change the input.
garbage in, and garbage out,
the old phrase from computers.
Well, it works
for your body too.
And so you've got to
change that input.
And so all of the
successful therapies-- and I
don't know that we have a lot of
time to get into the specifics,
but the piece of them
that's a commonality
is that they all focus on
intaking clean foods while you
detoxify the body.
And when I say
clean foods, I'm not
talking about foods
that are washed off,
which you should wash your
food, but not necessarily what
I mean.
What I mean is non-GMO, organic
foods, as close to nature
as possible.
If you're going to eat meats,
they need to be clean meats.
They need to be
from animals that
have been treated humanely.
People different whether
they're vegetarian or vegan
or they eat meat.
But if you do eat
meat, it needs to be
from animals that
are treated humanely,
that are not fit antibiotics,
that are not fed growth
hormone, and so
forth, and that don't
eat genetically modified foods.
Because if you have a cow
that is raised humanely
and doesn't have any antibiotics
injected into him or her,
but then they're grazing
on GMO corn, don't eat it,
because the cows are
what they eat too.
So there's a big
debate over that,
so I don't want
to get into that,
but you need to eat clean
foods, and my recommendation
is as close to
nature as possible.
So the farther-- the more
steps you get away from nature
and the closer you
get to the packages
and the boxes and the bags,
it becomes less real food.
It's not really
real food anymore.
Real food is something
that you pick.
Grandma and my granddad.
Look at our grandparents.
My grandparents, even the
ones that died of cancer,
they lived into their 80s.
One of them lived into her 90s.
And they died of
cancer because I
think what happened
is the food changed,
and so they got cancer
late in their life
because the food
changed, and they didn't
know the food had changed.
It tasted better.
It was more convenient.
You could nuke it.
But they didn't
realize that what
they had been doing their whole
life by growing their own food,
picking their own food, milking
their own cows, whatever
it might be, was nature.
And the farther they
got away from that,
they began to get sick too.
So go back to what the
grandparents did 100 years ago,
and I think you're on a
good road to recovery.
>> Great.
I couldn't agree more.
And when you're saying
what you're saying,
I've thought about this term
of "you are what you eat eats,"
which is really important.
>> You are, yeah.
That was the cow.
You are what you eat eats, yeah.
>> When it comes to
natural therapies,
I agree with all of
your comments there,
but one of the big things that
I'm discovering as my research
deepens is a lot about mindset,
the mind-body relationship,
stress reduction, emotions,
potentially trauma or emotional
issues that
somebody's-- or fear.
What are your thoughts on that?
Have you done much
research on that?
>> Yeah.
I'm actually doing a lot
of research on it now.
Now, 10 years ago,
15 years ago, when
I was doing my initial
research, I literally
thought that was hocus pocus.
I did.
But I don't anymore.
I believe that the mind, the
mindset, the emotions, stress,
trauma, fear,
anger, joy, they all
have different effects
on the immune system,
and thus the
results of the body.
So we've even seen studies--
I've read studies where
one minute of laughter
actually stimulates your natural
killer cells, I believe it is.
So laughter makes your
immune system work better.
Fear, anger, stress reduces
your immune function
for a period of hours.
So we know now-- we
can actually measure
the effect of these different
emotions on the immune system.
And we look at people
that-- and I've
interviewed medical
doctors across the world
with my travels,
and many of them
have said the same exact thing.
I'll have two cancer patients.
They have the exact
same kind of cancer,
same stage, almost identical.
One does my treatment
and is healed.
The other doesn't make it.
What's the difference?
It's the fact that this one got
rid of their emotional baggage,
was able to clear their--
tapping techniques.
Emotional freedom techniques.
Whatever they used, they were
able to get rid of that baggage
that was keeping them down,
and this one couldn't.
And so as a matter
a fact, that's
why, to me, it's such a
crime for an oncologist
to look at a cancer
patient and say,
you've got three months to
live, because we believe them
as being these godlike
figures that have the power
to predict the future.
And if they tell you that you
have three months to live,
often times, we believe it.
And I've interviewed doctors
that said, you know what?
I had a patient that came over
from a traditional oncologist
and they told him they
had three months to live,
and I cured their
cancer, and they still
died in three months.
Why?
Because they were programmed
to die at three months
because they believed that
they would die in three months.
And the mind does have that
much of an impact on our health.
So the more I get into this,
the more I see the huge role
that the emotions do
play and the mindset
plays in the prevention and
the treatment of cancer.
>> Great.
I'm really glad that that's
become a big part of your work
too, because it reminds me
of a book called "Anatomy
of an Illness" by
Norman Cousins.
And it was written I
think in the '40s or '50s,
or maybe '60s.
And he actually checked himself
out of a hospital into a hotel
and watched comedy
movies back to back.
>> I remember the story.
And he healed himself.
>> He healed himself.
And I'm like, that
is such a novel idea.
What a groundbreaking
guy to do that research.
>> It was a doctor, Dr.
Francisco Contreras with
the Oasis of Hope in Tijuana.
I interviewed him a
couple of years ago,
and he told me that story.
And he said that
because of that,
at their hospital now
they have a laughter room.
And they have--
the walls are all
painted in fluorescent colors,
and they would play cartoons.
And the patients
just go in there,
and they have laughter sessions.
It's amazing.
>> I'm excited where
things are getting to.
But we still have
a long way to go.
As we get into this space we
start to live in our own bubble
and we start to believe
that everybody has access
to this information,
but we're really
just touching the surface.
>> We really are.
We really are.
And the food is such an
important piece to both of us
and to our companies.
We're really firm believers
that that's such a key.
But when you're in a hotel
like we are and we walk around
and we see what most of the
people are still eating,
we see that we do
have a long way to go.
>> But that's a good challenge.
>> But we're getting there.
>> Yeah, we are.
>> We're getting there.
>> So to wrap up here, are there
any final thoughts you'd want
to leave people with maybe that
have family members that have
cancer or they
themselves have cancer?
And if there's any tips or
tricks, like things or foods
that you particularly eat
every day that you're like,
that is something
since I've learned this
that I'm going to keep
eating or really focus on,
I'd love to hear that.
>> Sure.
I think the main thing that
I want people to focus on
is the fact that cancer
is not a death sentence.
We're told that it's
a death sentence.
The oncologist tells you
it's a death sentence.
But it's not.
And as we were
just talking about,
James, with the
mind involvement,
you can't believe that, because
it's not-- doctors aren't god.
They don't know what's
coming down the road.
But they do have the
ability to hurt you
physically through your mind.
Your mind helps to
control that body,
and you can literally
will yourself to death.
So don't believe that
cancer is a death sentence,
because it's not.
I've done thousands,
tens of thousands
of hours of research,
as have you,
as have many other
people across the globe,
and we know that
there are literally
hundreds of different ways
that you can naturally
treat your cancer, and
you can turn it around.
So number one,
don't believe that.
And then, number two,
as far as the foods,
I think my daughter
is a great example.
Her name's Brianna.
She's 16 years old.
And so because she
lives in our house,
she's hearing this
stuff all the time.
She's turned into pretty
much of a fruitarian.
She eats fruit all the time.
Now, she eats some
vegetables, but mostly fruit.
And it's all raw,
and it's all organic.
And so I don't really
have a favorite food,
I guess, but just as close
to nature as you can.
She's 16 years old, and
when most kids her age
are going out and getting
burgers and fries,
she makes herself up a big bowl
of strawberries, blueberries,
blackberries, and raspberries
every night for dinner.
So get back to nature.
And what you'll find
out is that you are--
initially, you will
find out that you
are addicted to the food you're
eating, because there are
chemicals in the fast
foods and the junk foods
that make you crave them.
But once you can
break that addiction,
you'll find out that real
food, natural food, food
that you can pick from the
vine, taste so much better
than anything that you
can get from a package
or a bag or a store.
So my admonition for people
is just to get back to nature
and to let your taste buds
adapt back to eating foods
that are real.
Well, I do have a favorite food
that I eat almost every day.
You asked for that.
>> I did.
I'm glad you got there.
>> I eat avocados like
they're going out of style.
>> Nice.
>> I love avocados.
They're technically a
fruit, even though they
don't seem like
a fruit, but they
do have the seed in the middle.
>> They are fruit.
>> So they're great.
They have great fats.
I eat a very high-fat, high
natural fat like vegetable fat,
diet.
Not vegetable oil, but
avocado fat, olive oil, those.
A lot of fats,
but I eat avocados
like they're going out of style.
I love them.
And I a lot of garlic.
So those are two favorites
of mine, I guess,
if you're asking
for favorite foods.
>> Nice.
Ty, you're a champion
in this space,
and I respect you
a lot in your work.
And I think what you're
doing in the world is great,
and I really thank you for
having the time with me today.
>> Well, thank you, James.
Back at your, brother.
Appreciate it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]